5/8/12

5/10/12

For the first time in over a year, I slept through my alarms this morning. Yes, that's right. No typo. Alarms.

I was out a bit late last night, and forgot to set my third alarm. You'd think that two would do the trick, but not with me. I woke up at 8:30 confused and terrified. The worst of it was that on a usual day this wouldn't be such a huge deal. I would drop my boss a line and let her know that I was running a bit late, maybe even work from home that day. However, today was not a normal day.

Today, for the first time since starting my new job, was the day that we had a video conference with Singapore. Half of my team is in New York, while the other half is in Singapore. Until today, I had only ever had the opportunity to speak to them on the phone. But this morning was our team meeting, in a conference room with 3 large flatscreen TVs, and several cameras. It was like being across a table from them. And I was late.

I was legitimately out the door by 8:37. I think that's my best wakeup-to-out-the-door-time yet. And I made it on time! Still was a pretty stressful morning.

Lots of fun trying to explain to your boss and coworkers how it is that a grown-ass man is still incapable of waking up without multiple alarm clocks, and even then there's still a risk. Hopefully one day I'll grow out of this...

----

Later in the day my team and I were talking. One of my coworkers was telling an amusing story about her 7th year anniversary. Apparently, as the story goes, she decided that for her 7th year anniversary, instead of a great romantic evening, she would go all out: she asked her husband to write a review of her. The way she explained the idea so earnestly, it sounded really touching actually. It seemed like she was really invested in making sure her relationship lasted forever, and she wanted a list of constructive criticisms to help her be a better wife and mother.

Her husband was down with the idea, he got to work writing up his review, while she wrote up hers. However, the poor guy didn't realize what many astute readers will realize: that it was a trap. Maybe not constructed as such intentionally, but women are too devious for their counterparts.

He goes on to read her this list of things about her that he loves, and the list of things that he thinks she could change. Naturally, she gets really upset at him, for misunderstanding her clear instructions and saying harsh things about her. Apparently, "write a review of me" is secret code for "write nice things about me, because I'm perfect".

"The good news," she continues, "is that when I do this again, he will be totally trained."All the other women on the team shared a laugh at the stupidity and naiveté of men.

I was utterly flummoxed by this story. I'm not going to say I didn't smell a trap, I am not that naive, but the concept does not sit well with me. And I vocalized this to the team. What we have here is the perfect opportunity to improve your relationship with your wife. Let's list the things we love about each other, and the things we don't like so much, and then we can take care of them. Why get mad at honesty? Why the need to "train" her husband to lie to her in the future? How is it that a healthy relationship can contain these seemingly contradictory circumstances?

I don't really have any answers to this question. I think the rest of the team shrugged it off as me being a naive idealist who hasn't ever been married, so I can't possibly understand.

After the conversation, one of my other coworkers turned to me and said "I think you should go for Asian girls." Naturally, this caught me off guard, as it was completely out of the blue, and seemingly unrelated. "Why is that?" I inquired. "Because Asian girls aren't as easily offended by criticism, plus they don't expect you to buy them jewelry."

Apparently I came off as a criticizing, cheap, idealist. Just another day at the office, eh?