Advice to a New Startup

12/24/10

Crosspost from Pulse Advisory Blog (where I'm an analyst):

I haven't been in the startup scene for long, but there is already one piece of advice I should impart. In my experience with new companies, the main pitfalls technology-wise could all have been solved with one simple step. Getting a tech guy as a partner.

This advice has been proven true in my experience thus far and has also been reaffirmed by a speaker I heard recently at a panel about startups. If you're starting a company in this day and age you will inevitably be using the internet as a medium. There is simply no better way to reach out to a huge audience with such ease. Given that, it really makes sense to have a dedicated technology expert as part of your staff.

Every startup is strapped for cash. With so many other financial details to take care of, the last thing you'll want to be doing is haggling with a consultant over what his fee is or what was covered by his initial estimate. And, as everyone who's ever made a website knows, nothing is ever perfect the first, second, or even third time around. Even when you think you have a polished product, there will be that a minor spelling error or a small tweak that could make the site look just a little better. Having to pay an outside consultant to change things like font of your site wastes time and money.

Motivation is key. If you are going to employ a random guy to build your site, sure, he could do a phenomenal job, but it could also be a disaster. As a company initially strapped for cash, you're going to have to try to find the cheapest labor you can, which means you'll get the cheapest work done. By having a dedicated web developer as a partner, you'll ensure that he will do the best, most innovative work that he can, because he is motivated by stake in the company and its ultimate success. Nothing is as encouraging as knowing that one's hard work is bringing him/her along to the top.

People in the technology industry tend to be logical and organized. They can attack problems with enthusiasm and are always ready to find a new solution. When building a new company, innovation is often key and viewing a problem in a linear, logical fashion can illuminate challenges or solutions that would have otherwise go unnoticed. Especially since creative people and individuals with ideas tend to be more "out there' and less product focused. An imaginative mindset is perfect for seeding a new business with creative new ideas, but when you're maintaining a product and evaluating whether it lives up to its consumers expectations it's nice to have a fresh set of eyes with a different outlook on board.

So, do yourself a favor and get a technical partner now. This may come off as plug for myself, but I assure you, there's still a large pool of untapped talent and I've heard from plenty of cool people who say that having a technical co-founder is one of the keys to success.