Bananas

5/4/12

I feel as though every time I buy bananas I make a huge mistake.

I browse through the fruit aisle at Costco, looking for fruit. You know what the problem with shopping at Costco is? The money you save by buying things in bulk is directly negated by the money you lose throwing away things that have gone bad because you're just a single dude who can't eat a full river of salmon in a week.

Anyways, shopping for fruit at Costco, and I see the sign for the bananas. I remind myself that last time I bought bananas, they didn't last very long, and that I'd be disappointed. Then my inner Jew says "there is no way you're not buying bananas. They are 99 cents for a bunch! That's like 15 cents a banana! It's a bargain!!" It's hard to argue with that sort of logic...

So I go ahead and purchase the bananas. They are usually green at the time of purchase, which I assure myself is a good thing. "Last time you bought bananas, you definitely got more yellow ones. These are green, they'll last long enough for you to eat one for breakfast every day." Perfect logic, in any other place besides New York.

Apparently New York City is like the Twilight zone for fruit. There is no such thing as "in season" in New York. Perfectly good fruit are laid to waste by the absurd fluctuations in temperature and fact that nothing can grow in this asphalt wasteland. I honestly cannot recall a time when I purchased a selection of fruit and was able to eat the entire kit and kaboodle without at least one going horrifically bad. I'm talking entire-orange-moldy-mint-green bad, not like "oh nos i gots a shriveled grape" bad. News flash: that's called a raisin, so suck it up and enjoy it.

These bananas were no exception to that rule. They seemed to transition from a disappointing hue of pre-ripe green straight to the speckled brown dalmatian color they get when you realize you have to eat them really soon without ever being yellow. Go directly to rotten. Do not pass yellow. Do not collect $200.

I'd estimate that I ate at most 2/3s of each banana. On average, a large portion was brown and rotten, or parts were not ripe yet, or they just plain tasted bad. Plus, they had the infuriating tendency to be impossible to open, to the point that by the time you managed to get the peel slightly open, you had already mangled the edible half of the banana with your frenzied squeezing, leaving only the rotten half left anyways.

Oh well, at least it doesn't feel like much of a waste. Even if I only ate the equivalent of two whole bananas, that's still twice as cheap as buying them individually from the guy on the side of the road. He must not shop at Costco though, because his always seem yellow...