Birthdays

8/2/12

I always seem to start my blog posts the same way. They all start with a short, declarative statement, usually beginning with "I". And this one is no exception.

I also tend to like my titles to be a word or two. Nothing long winded, usually just a word or phrase that sums up the point of the article. This one seems to do the same thing, though it's hard to see how it's pertinent to the point of the article as of yet.

But I digress.

I never tell anyone when my birthday is. Well, never may be an overstatement. I'll tell if I'm asked, and I feel that the individual actually cares. But I certainly don't publicize it. It's not on my facebook page.

You may ask why? "Why are you so secretive, Benjamin? Surely you're only serving to hamper the progress of people who actually want to know what your birthday is. People who actually care, and want to call you and give you their birthday wishes!"

This may be the case, but I have several compelling reasons why not to publicize my birthday.

I actually care about people. If I did not wish you a happy birthday this year, it's because my failing human memory is limited, and even if I knew it, it's quite likely that I simply forgot what the date was on that day. It is also possible that I don't know it. But one thing I don't do is go on facebook and look up someone's birthday. And if I do, I NEVER wish them a happy birthday on facebook.

I happen to despise that social convention. The one where you meet someone once on a shabbaton back in seventh grade, and all of a sudden you are deemed "friends", and then 11 years (holy crap, it's been 11 years since 7th grade???) and two words ("yo", "yo") later, he's violating the sanctuary of your facebook wall with insincere birthday wishes he only posted because he saw your name up at the corner of his little news feed. I sure you know the feeling.

And then, amidst the insincere messages from people you don't know, you'll find several messages, identical in content, wishing you happy birthday from your close friends or family members. Doesn't that make the whole thing seem that much worse? That your friends or family could not be bothered to care any more than random people?

That's why I always call or text on a birthday. That's the courtesy I expect, and that's what I provide.

This year I walked around on my birthday in an odd haze. I felt incognito. I received maybe one birthday wish, yet somehow it didn't bother me. I felt a sort of power over people. "I know something you don't know." I may look the same on the outside, but inside I know I'm a year older. It wasn't a bad feeling.

So if you happen to find yourself on my birthday thinking that you'll just write a little facebook post and get it over with, think again. Call me, text me, heck, you can carrier pigeon me. Come to think of it, please carrier pigeon me. That would be the best present ever.