Gosh, Vat a Fun Guy!

5/11/12

Today I had an interesting conversation with my coworker (not the one that told me to get with an Asian). I was joking around, goofing off, basically being my usual cheerful self. It was friday after all...

She turned to me, and said "Why are you always so cheerful and fun?" This was an odd question for me. Sort of me like asking her "Why are you Indian?" except more politically correct.

I tried to answer as best as I could; "Because that's just how I am?" I was hoping that by answering vaguely it would give her a chance to clarify her question. And I was right. Good call on that one, benshai!

"It seems like a lot of the young guys that come in here are very ambitious, and spend all day working frantically. They never seem to have fun, they don't take personal time, they're just always thinking about their career and how serious they need to be."

I thought about that for a second. She is right, you know. I'm not saying I'm not ambitious (future employers, am I right?) but I think I just value certain things in life. Life is too short to be always worried about the next step. If I lived my life busting my ass because I hopes that 5 years down the line things would be even better, I would never enjoy the moment I'm in.

Sure, I have room to grow, but right now I'm not so bad off. I have a job, I have friends, and I have my family. I spend a large portion of my day at work, why shouldn't I try my hardest to enjoy it and have a good time?

I explained this all to her. She seemed to like the idea. I had never really thought of myself as unique in that regard, but as I looked around, it really struck home. How so few people actually enjoy their day to day work.

She told me, "If I'm ever not in a good mood at work, I'm just gonna look over at you, and remind myself that I should enjoy life now." I like that. I'm always happy to serve as a reminder to people that they should be enjoying life. So let this be my official first reminder to everyone: life is too short to trade today's unhappiness for the potential for a "better future". Enjoy life today, and make the best out of everything you have!

Cheers!