Hostility

7/4/12

I was hanging out with a group of friends and we decided to go down to the Upper West Side. We all got on the train together, and when we got on the train at our station, another random guy got on the train with us. When the train pulled into the next station, literally 10 blocks from the previous one, the man got off the train.

Being the friendly and humorous person that I am, I jokingly leaned my head out the door and said, "just one stop?" To be fair, I'm not sure what I expected. I certainly wouldn't expect a long explanation, like "well, I recently sprained my right hip, and I need to go bring medicine to my friends dying dog, and it simply would have died before I could have walked over there." Maybe I thought he would laugh and shrug? What I definitely was not expecting was his response: "yeah, f*** you!!"

I've come to expect all sorts of odd behavior from people living in New York City. I guess this is not really a place conducive to friendliness and neighborly love. I've seen a drunk man on the train beat up an old guy. Seen a man who just got hit in the face with a baseball bat. I know this isn't the best part of town we live in, but I was still expecting a small amount of civility.

What possesses someone to curse out a stranger? Is it so offensive to be asked a simple joking question, that you feel the need to express your extreme hatred for them through profanity? Maybe I just couldn't understand, because I'm an "out-of-town-er". I just am not wired in the right way to comprehend the utter frustration and hatred one should feel at being forced to withstand human interaction. "I should be able to take the subway without all these people trying to talk to me, damnit!"

Whatever the case may be, and whomever is at fault in this story, this much is clear to me: I need to make sure living in New York does not turn me into that. I very much enjoy being the friendly person that I am, and I can't let this city change me. And if it means enduring a few "f*** you"s along the way, so be it.