How Are You Doing

9/12/12

I have a confession to make. An admission of guilt. So I'm going to announce it here, publicly, for the whole world to see. Here it is:

Sometimes, when someone asks me how I'm doing, I'll lie, straight to their face. 

Gasp! Really, Benjamin? Yes. Really. No moral qualms, just stare them in the eyes and lie. 

But in an attempt to justify my actions, so I can sleep at night, allow me to explain my rationale. 

I am not an anarchist. I don't go around answering random questions with a lie, just to mess with people or the system. 

It happens that I really hate that question. 

I don't know how or when, but "how are you doing" has all of a sudden become a greeting. Like "hi", or "salutations", or "some pig". And it bothers me. 

Every time someone says "how are you doing" to me as a greeting, I want to scream, "Do you actually care? Do you want to know how I'm doing? Or do you want to fulfill your social contract of pretending to care and move on with your life?"

So I do what everyone else does. I lie. I say, "great, how are you?" I nod and smile. Because that's what they want. 

Let's say I'm actually not doing well. Let's say I'm having a miserable day. Odds are I don't want to talk about it. And if I do, it's likely not with this person. So this creates an awkward interaction. 

"How are you doing?"
"Not good, actually..."

Now the asker is in a bind. See, they wanted to get rid of their obligation to talk to me and show they care. This conversation is clearly progressing into the lengthy variety. And they don't want to have a real conversation with me, or they would have in the first place. 

Furthermore, I don't want to talk to them about my problems. So if they take the plunge and ask, "what's wrong?" I'm likely going to respond, "I don't want to talk about it," which leaves them even worse off. It makes me look like an attention-seeker, and leaves them uneasy. And If they respond instead with the time-tested "sorry to hear", then I was just confirmed that they really don't care, they were just asking. 

No, better to lie. I'll fake a smile, say things are great, thanks for asking, and ask them the same question, also not caring about their response. Because I won't be able to change the world. I can't make people realize that they are being callous. That we should only really ask about others when we care, because we're training people to not talk about their feelings, to hide everything to make others feel good about their paltry efforts to "care". I just have to suck it up. 

I'm fine, thanks. How are you?
