Long Overdue Update

7/8/10

Well now, it certainly has been a while, hasn't it. As I suspected, I don't really have much to talk about, and between my boringness and business with a summer job, I have not gotten around to writing anything. But I shall hopefully start updating with more frequency now.
Firstly, my summer internship has been going quite well, I am doing a graphic design/web development internship, which has been educational. I enjoy the job because I get exposure to a wide array of things, ranging from making training videos, to email flyers, to hard core programming. I have also learned to hate Microsoft with a passion, much more so than I had before now. Our site is coded in asp.net, which is a Microsoft language which contains both client-side html-like code and server-side programming code. While this sounds lovely in theory, getting these two to interact well is becoming a nightmare, which is where the fun part of the job comes in. From what I hear, web development is usually a lot of blindly doing things in hopes it fixes an error one doesn't entirely understand, and a lot of work on little things, while large things are quite simple.
I noticed this in coding my engagement page. To get a list of every entry in my database, formatted well, with the proper anonymity settings, was a breeze. It took in total maybe an hour, and that's including getting test data entered into the database, and checking for anomalies. However, getting my css working properly so that all my lines besides the first would indent, and getting lines to alternate colors, took me about 5 hours, and I'm still not entirely sure it's how I want it. It just seems like the simplest things are the hardest to implement.
In other news, there isn't really any other news. The majority of my time is split between Ellen and work, sometimes both at the same time. This friday night, I am having some guest over, who all have strong opinions on basically all matters. If I remember what they say from friday night til after shabbat ends, I will be sure to update with the conversations and my opinions on them. Until then, sayonara.