Of Beggars and Weddings

5/23/12

I want to take this moment to rant about a subject that has bothered me for many moons. If you are offended by people ruining the mood of happy occasions, well, so am I, so you may as well read on and hear what I have to say.

I was recently at the wedding of a friend of mine. This wedding happened to take place in Brooklyn, more specifically, Williamsburg. It was a lovely wedding, in a venue that was beautiful, albeit in a bizarre neighborhood. There's something about seeing an elegant wedding hall in the middle of a crummy neighborhood that just makes you go, "Huh?"

As I meandered around the hall and the shmorg, I noticed an unusually high number of Hassidic Jews, a fact I considered odd because the couple were not Hassidic. I shrugged it off, thinking, "I haven't spent a lot of time with the couple recently, maybe they have a lot of Hassidic friends I didn't know about."

However, my attempt to reconcile this anomaly was proven false, when one of them came up to me, hands outstretched, and asked me for money. The first thought that went through my mind was, "Are you f-ing kidding me?? Begging at a wedding? This guy must be really desperate, and be a total nut job, there's no way people in their right mind would beg at a wedding."

Again, perhaps I give people too much credit. This was not the work of a lone nut job. Apparently this is a thing; I was approached by no less than 5 people asking for money in the span of an hour. And the kicker was, there was a time when everyone was praying the evening services, and when they all stood silently for the Shemoneh Esreh (silent prayer), these filthy animals were walking through the crowd loudly asking for money. They physically pushed people to get through, knocking over individuals who were praying, so they could interrupt someone else's prayer and bum a quarter.

I have never been so disgusted in my life.

These people, who consider themselves ultra-orthodox, are disrespecting the beauty of a wedding? These men, with their beards and side-curls and hats, who look down on the less observant, these high and mighty "learned scholars" who spend every day in Yeshiva, have the audacity to interrupt a praying man to ask for money??

These hypocrites represent everything I hate about ultra-orthodox jewry. They profess to live their lives in the way of the bible, yet they forget simple tenets. "Love your neighbor as you love yourself." What ever happened to being a good person? Oh, so if I keep every law in the book, that gives me the right to be a terrible person? I can obey the letter of the law, and ignore the spirit? God will love me if I throw rocks at a car on Sabbath? If that's the true meaning of that sect, I never want to be associated with them. They give Jews worldwide a bad name.

I recall a wedding I was at a couple years ago, where I was interrupted by a beggar while dancing. Yes, you heard me right; I was pulled aside and asked for money <em>while dancing around the groom</em>. Can I just pause for a minute and let that sink in?



While dancing! What kind of terrible person interrupts the happiest day of a couple's life like that? What in the world is going on in that person's head? "I know he is celebrating the union of a good friend of his, so he'll definitely want to be stopped in the middle and asked for money. My getting a few bucks is more important than him being happy for his friend." Repulsive.

I don't whine about beggars in the subway. I don't complain about people on street corners. Heck, you can even stand at the door to the wedding hall and ask for money then. But I'll be damned if I ever give a single cent to someone who interrupts in the middle of a wedding, inside the wedding hall, to beg. And for heaven's sake, of all the times in the wedding, why would you interrupt the dancing and the praying? A large portion of the wedding is just standing/sitting around. You had to pick the times when people are actively involved in something? Yeah, that will make them more likely to donate, get them good and angry.

I issue this blanket statement right now. If any of you see a beggar asking for money at my wedding, I give you permission, nay, I implore you, to take them aside and tell them to get the hell out if they know what is good for them. Because you can be sure that if I witness it, it will anger me on one of the happiest days of my life. And they won't like me when I'm angry.