On Love and The Dark Tower

7/19/12

Today I was reading on the train and I read a passage in a book that really made me think:

"So much you did; so much you did and so much more you would have done, aye, and all without a check or qualm, and so will the world end, I think, a victim of love rather than hate. For love's ever been the more destructive weapon"
-Stephen King, The Dark Tower

This quote really rang true to me. It hit me hard like a kick from a mule. Think about it for a second. No, really, think about it.

Ok, maybe this may just be for me,  but if I think about anything in my life that was destructive, if I think of the worst things that have happened to me, the moments that made me want to curl up and die, they were all as a result of love, not hate. Love is a much stronger emotion than hate. And stronger emotions have stronger effects.

As a child of divorce, I know the way love can be perverted. Can curdle like milk left out on a hot summer day. How an individual acting out of love can hurt another individual in a most unloving way. I've been in a tug-of-war caused by love.

Love is opening yourself up. Making yourself vulnerable. And vulnerability can be very dangerous.

This quote rang true to me, and yet it saddened me. Sitting on the train, thinking about love, and what it can do, really made me sad. It's sad that the human race has taken a beautiful emotion and turned it into a weapon. Sad how easy it is to hurt someone you love, or to use your love as a tool through which you can get anything you want, regardless of the destructive consequences.

Sad, and yet hopeful. Only an emotion which has so much potential for bad, so much reason for despair, can have the same potential for good. Can build this world up; can create things; can cause new life. Sure, hate may be less destructive. But by the very same token, it is also less productive.

So fret not, dear reader. Do not take Sai King's quote to mean you should never love. Love freely, and genuinely. And know that love, as a tool in the right hands, can bring forth an unparalleled good.