Starting the Year on the Right Foot

9/14/10

As a new year starts, I decided to write a blog entry, in hopes that this will be a habit that I catch. I'm skeptical of my abilities, however; the harder habit to kick seems to be laziness and complacency. Nevertheless, I am working on that, and this post marks my first attempt to be more active and productive.

Today in shiur, my rabbi said something that really bothered me. We were discussing <em>Caparot</em>, the ritual swinging of the chicken over one's head to atone for sins, and whether or not it was animal cruelty. My rabbi stated: "we have to accept that the sages knew everything, and are more wise than us. All this discussion is just going in circles, we just need to accept that they had a reason for telling us what to do, even if we don't see it." This blindly following orders is a main thing that bothers me nowadays in Judaism. Judaism isn't about blindly doing what a rabbi tells you to do. It's about worshipping God, in the best way you can. And we are not trying to raise lemmings! Judaism promotes thinking. Why else would the Talmud exist? Many rabbis, discussing, debating, arguing, all trying to find the truth. And clearly the exact truth has not yet been found, as people still write books on Judaism to this day. We should be promoting thinkers, not followers. I am not saying you should go against Torah law, but I think that you should follow the rules, but also think about them, and the reasons behind them.

Completely unrelated, here is a bit of a sappy love poem I wrote:

Whenever I am with you,
The time it seems to fly,
But when I am not by your side,
It just crawls slowly by,

'Cuz every second is well spent,
If it is spent with you,
Every task, both fun and dull,
Is much more fun to do,

You brighten up my day, my dear,
You make the whole world shine,
You fill me up with love and joy,
You make my glad you're mine,

And when I am away, it seems,
My body aches for you,
And every second spent alone,
Just makes me feel more blue,

Then in you sweep, all happily,
And I can't help but grin,
All sadness gone, for with you here,
My life is good again,

So please don't ever leave me, love,
I'd know not what to do,
For people as perfect as you,
Are very far and few,

I sit here writing, hoping, that
This poem makes you glad,
I only want good in your life,
I hate to see you sad,

All the time we've spent together,
Has all been worthwhile,
For every day would be complete,
Just having seen you smile,

So here's to us, please let it last,
I'm yours forever more,
And with you in my life,
I can't wait to see what's in store