Why Now?

5/9/12

I've had this website for quite some time. Even before then, I had a blog up on blogorama or blogalicoius, or one of those services. In fact, a couple days from now marks the 2 year anniversary of my time spent as a blogger.

Pretty frequently you will see posts from me saying something along the lines of "Hey readers. I know I've been away from the blog for a while. Things have been really hectic, and I haven't had much time to write. This is me coming back to blogging, and assuring you that you, dear reader, are on the forefront of my mind. I will be posting much more frequently from now on!"

Sounds like a politician, huh? "I really care about you, vote for meeeeee!!!!!!" Invariably, this would be followed by maybe one blog post, and then months of silence.

You may notice that I started writing fairly abruptly this time. No proclamation of my return. I returned silently, writing posts that I felt were interesting without any promises. I feel that is the key for me to maintain a fairly regular writing schedule.

If I have this weight of a daily post on my shoulders, it's too easy to screw up and miss a day. And once I miss a day, I'm a lost cause, so I may as well go back to never writing. However, I have instead tried to write a post every day, without any obligations. Instead of a promise written out to my invisible audience (because let's be honest, there's no way I get more than 10 readers), I have just started. I write, and post to facebook, and build up the sense of obligation without the feeling that breaking the chain will ruin everything.

As to why now? Because I have time? Because I'm bored at night? Because I read an article posted by a fellow on Hacker News about how he decided to write every day, and a year later had published 3 full length books. I harbor no illusions of publishing any books; I doubt anything I write would have enough of a flow to work in a book, and I'm frankly not confident with the level of my writing that I think people should be paying to read it. However, I do feel it to be a worthwhile exercise, and I was inspired by his tale. While I make no promises to write every day, or even write about anything interesting, this is definitely something I will try to make a habit. Especially while I continue to have free time and little of value to fill it with besides writing and amusing myself with programming challenges...